Initial import (#1)
qonto/database-monitoring-framework: content/runbooks/rds/RDSPredictNoDiskSpace.md

---
title: Predict no disk space
---

# RDSPredictNoDiskSpace

## Meaning

> Alert is triggered when monitoring predict the RDS storage disk space will be full.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alert is triggered when monitoring predicts RDS storage disk space will be full.
```

## Impact

The PostgreSQL instance will stop to prevent data corruption if no more disk space is available.

## Diagnosis

Determine whether it's a long-term growth trend requiring storage increase or abnormal disk usage reflecting another problem:

1. Check database size growth over the last 24 hours to identify abnormal disk usage growth

    Look at `Storage usage` panel in `RDS instance details` Grafana dashboard

1. Check if there are long-running transactions (or queries)

    Look at `Postgresql live activity` Grafana dashboard to find long-running query

    <details>
    <summary>Why?</summary>
    {{< postgresql-long-running-transaction-impacts >}}
    </details>

>     {{< details title="SQL" open=false >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< details title="How?" open=false >}}
```
